<b><u>MOST IMPORTANT TOURIST ATTRACTIONS</b></u>
Sealine Beach Resort.
Sealine Beach Resort is situated 55 km from the capital.
Al-Gharriyya Resort.
Al-Gharriyya Resort is situated in Al-Gharriyya area in the north of the country; and it comprises a number of furnished villas.
The Zoo.
The Zoo includes a big collection of animals, reptiles and birds, and has a small fun city.
Al-Rumaila Park.
Al-Rumaila Park lies on Doha Corniche and has landscapes, children rides, a popular market and restaurants.
Dahl El-Hamam Public Park.
Dahl El-Hamam Public Park has several green areas, passageways and playgrounds for children.
Khor Al Udaid Beach.
Khor Al Udaid Beach lies on the most south-eastern part of the country, 78 km from Doha, and features fine sand dunes.
Al-Jassasiya.
Al-Jassasiya is a range of rocky hills overlooking the north-eastern coast of the country.
Al-Maha Reserve.
Al-Maha Reserve was established to protect the Oryx (named Al-Maha in Arabic), which is an endangered desert antelope.

<b><u>HOTELS AND RECREATIONAL CLUBS :</b></u>
<b>Hotels</b>
• Qatar National Hotels Company (QNHC) www.qnhc.com
• Ritz Carlton Hotel www.ritzcarlton.com
• Fareej Sharq Hotel and Resort www.sharqvillage.com
• Doha Four Seasons Hotel www.fourseasons.com
• Doha Grand Hayatt Hotel doha.grand.hyatt.com
• Doha Sheraton Hotel and Resort www.sheraton-doha.com
• Doha Marriott Hotel www.marriott.com
• Doha Intercontinental Hotel www.ichotelsgroup.com
• Grand Regency Hotel www.grand-regency.com
• Movenpick Tower and Suites Doha www.moevenpick-hotels.com
• Al-Sultan Hotel and Resort www.alsultanbeachresort.com
• Millennuim Hotel www.millenniumhotels.com
• La Cigale Hotel www.lacigalehotel.com
• Oryx Rotana Hotel www.rotana.com
• Mercure Grand Hotel www.mercure.com
• Ramada Plaza Hotel www.ramadaplazadoha.com
• Movenpick Doha www.movenpick-doha.com
• Merweb Al-Sadd Hotel www.merweb-hotel.com
• Swiss-Belhotel Doha doha.swiss-belhotel.com
• Gloria Hotel-Doha www.gloriahotel-doha.com
• Kempinski Suites and Residence www.kempinski.com
• Souq Waqif Hotels www.swbh.com
• Al Jasra Boutique Hotel 
• Arumaila Boutique Hotel
• Musheireb Boutique Hotel
• Alnajada Boutique Hotel
• Al Mirqab Boutique Hotel

o Recreational clubs offer their members a wide array of sports and recreational facilities commensurate with
  the resources and equipment available in each individual club. Major clubs are concentrated in the city capital of Doha.
o Al Dana Club www.danaclub.com.qa
o The Diplomatic Club www.thediplomaticclub.com
o Doha Golf Club www.dohagolfclub.com
o Equestrian Club
o Al Ghazal Club

<b><u>MAJOR ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITES :</b></u>
<b>Museums :</b>
Qatar National Museum : 
The museum is situated on the eastern part of the Corniche. It displays the geological history of Qatar as well as a collection of
Islamic artifacts and relics. There is also a maritime museum in which the fish wealth of Qatar is displayed, and a small lagoon,
where wooden traditional boats built in Qatar are moored. Now it is under restoration.

Islamic Arts Museum :
The Islamic Arts Museum is situated on Doha Corniche. This museum houses a rare collection of Islamic artifacts made of clay,
base metals, precious metals, wood and glass. I contains a library, a multipurpose hall and an educational section; and was inaugurated
in late 2008. There is a large park next to the museum with vast lawn areas and entertainment facilities for children and adults.
It is distinguished by its spectacular waterfront view and shimmering lights.

Al Khor Museum :
Al Khor museum is located in Al-Khor town, about 57 km north of Doha. It is a two-story building with the ground floor allocated
for anthropological life and the upper floor for a hall displaying some excavation discoveries of Al Khor area.

Al Wakrah Museum :
Situated in Al Wakrah town, about 17 km from the capital, this museum displays items related to marine life and natural history.

Weaponry Museum :
The museum displays a rare collection of swords, daggers and miscellaneous firearms and their accessories. It is located in Al Laqta 
suburb of Doha.

*All these Museums open to receive visitors from 9 am to 12 pm and from 3 pm to 6 pm.*

Ethnographic Museum :
Situated on Hamad Al-Kabeer Street, it is the only example of its kind remaining in Doha. It opens Sunday through Tuesday from 9 am to 12 noon
and Fridays from 3 pm to 6 pm and closes on Saturdays. Entrance is free of charge.

<b>Major Forts :</b>
Al-Zubara Fort :
Al Zubara Fort lies 105 km northwest of Doha. It is open for the public on daily bases except Fridays and Saturdays.
Entrance is free of charge.

Doha Fort ( Al-Koot ) :
It is one of the few remaining military forts in Doha. It is located on Jassim bin Mohammed Street and opens daily. Entrance is free
of charge.

Al-Wajba Fort : 
Situated 15 km south of Doha, Al Wajba Fort was built in the late 18th century or early 19th century at the time of late
Sheikh Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani. It derives its historical importance from being the ground for a famous battle when
the Qatari people defeated the Ottoman forces in 1893, and from being the place of residence of Sheikh Hamad bin Abdullah Al Thani 
during various periods of time. The fort has rooms on the ground and upper floor and is well known for its four watchtowers.
It was restored to its original state.

Umm Salal Muhammad Fort : 
This fort lies in Umm Salal Mohammad area, 21 km from Doha. It is one of the residential forts that date back to the late 19th century.
Situated in Umm Salal Mohammed, the tower dates back to the late 19th century

<b>SHOPPING MALLS :</b>
Traditional Markets :
Traditional markets lie in the city Centre. Their shops open early in the morning, close for noon recess and open again in the evening. 
They display incense, perfumes and spices; tailoring, embroidery and jewelry shops and most of the traditional craft shops and objects 
including men's Arabian cloaks, women's cloaks, swords, daggers, textile and various goods in addition to traditional restaurants such as 
Waqif marketplace.

City Centre Marketplace : 
Comprises Souq Faleh
Souq Al Aseeri, Souq Al Jabr, and Souq Al Deerah. They sell various fabrics, clothes and electrical apparatus.
Open for morning and afternoon shifts.

Modern Shopping Centers :
They include City Center, The Mall, Land Mark, Hayatt Plaza, Royal Plaza, Al Mana Center, Al-Muftah, Al Salam Plaza, Blue Saloon,
Lulu Center, Center Point, Villagio and others.
These shopping centers sell various goods imported from US, Europe and East Asia and offer entertainment facilities including restaurants,
cafes, and cinema theatres and children play areas. They open from 9 am to 10 pm.